[Transcript missing]
And as you can see these applications
cover a fairly broad range.
There's also any number of third
party apps I'm not mentioning.
So if your app isn't here I apologise.
It's just too many.
But you have applications like
Final Cut Pro which is a video app.
You have GarageBand which is a consumer
oriented application for making music.
And then you've got Logic and
Performer that are oriented
towards the pro end of the market.
So that's a pretty broad range of
context that you're already working in.
So this is the problem that we found.
processing its effects.
It takes audio as input,
does some processing to provide output.
And they're the types of audio units
we can concentrate on for this talk.
Now, just to give you a quick
review of the API set,
an audio unit is a component.
There's component manager curves.
You use find components to do
searches to see what are the
components that are in that system.
And then once you find the
component that you want to use,
you open that.
That opens the component.
It's essentially like calling you
on a class object in Java or C++,
you create an instance.
That's called a component instance.
And when we talk about audio units,
we're talking about audio
units as a component instance.
And then once you've
opened the component,
there's things that you
want to do to the component.
And so then there's a collection
of APIs that are defined
Then the main work, of course,
is rendering.
And so there's an API for Audio Units
[Transcript missing]
It also has a relationship to render,
in that if there's some state
that's changed in the host,
you can use reset to basically
tell the Audio Unit that any
[Transcript missing]
Audio Unit APIs are typically
implemented by AU instruments and
there's a specialisation of the general
effect that can do things in particular
with MIDI and so we can implement
these APIs and answer those questions.
And then because instruments are
primarily based around notes,
we can
[Transcript missing]
it's often confusing to understand
how things should work so we
developed a command line tool
called the AU Validation Tool.
This tool is really just testing
what our unit put through its bases,
trying to break it in
as many ways as it can,
trying to make sure
that it behaves itself.
It's also a tool that
can be used to debug.
We've had a lot of developers using
this since we released it at the start
of the year as a means to actually
get their audio unit up and running,
getting it to a state where
they can then actually maybe
try it in a host application.
The Validation Tool is also
part of the Logo program.
The validation tool is
really good for some things.
It really can't do it in the context
of how do I use an Audio Unit.
So the Host App, AU Lab,
is provided to do this.
And this provides a fairly typical
[Transcript missing]
The validation tool does is it just
sees if it can find your Audio Unit.
And what we're doing here is
we're just finding the component.
We haven't actually
[Transcript missing]
We've done some open tests on
the Audio Unit that we've found.
And we profile the time it takes
us to open the Audio Unit to
The first time is what
we call a cold time.
And this is the time that's going
to take in order to load any
dependencies that your Audio Unit has.
[Transcript missing]
There's also two places that you
can get component version numbers
from the component manager,
and so we also do a check to
make sure they both match.
Then once we've opened the Audio Unit,
we have a look at what its
default configurations are.
What is its initial state in
terms of its I/O capabilities?
In this case, we've got one input,
one output.
The default format is 44kHz,
two channels.
It's got the generic 32 float, B-Indian,
D-lived format.
We'll come back to this
in a couple of slides.
Then we look through
the required properties.
These are properties that all
Audio Units are required for.
The last one, Instrument Count,
is a property that a host
can use to determine if your
instrument is multi-channel,
multi-tambural or mono-tambural.
If it's multi-tambural,
it may decide to do some
different actions in terms
of the way it passes MIDI.
And so we require this for instruments.
And then the Validation
Tool looks at some recommended
So this is actually latency,
not tail time.
And the first property
we're looking at is
This is a property that tells the host
how long it takes for a given sample to
appear in the output from some input.
And latency can be involved
with several different factors.
It could
[Transcript missing]
So that's a way to understand latency
as just going from input to how long
does it take for the output to appear.
And tail time,
which is now the correct title,
is a similar property,
but this time we're looking at
how long does it take for a sample
to disappear from the output.
So latency was how long
it takes to appear.
[Transcript missing]
The Audio Unit logo is designed
to allow customers to have ramping
operations in their algorithms,
so that the input sample
is going to be present.
[Transcript missing]
The supported number of
channels is optional,
although it's obviously
essential information.
And what the property reports
is any global capabilities
that an Audio Unit has between,
and dependencies between the
number of input channels and
the number of output channels.
And of course,
if you're looking at a synth,
it may not have any input channels,
so the input cycle is zero.
And if the property is not implemented,
then we make some assumptions.
If you're an effect,
This is AU Lab.
It's in the Tiger Applications
Audio folder.
Here is a bunch of tracks.
I've also got a bass and
then I've got an apple.
We'll have a look through these.
Now if you remember at the start,
in the validation tool, we looked at
In this case here,
I've got a stereo track going to stereo.
I'm able to create sub-menus for
So, when we're doing stereo to stereo,
we've decided not to
put the channels here.
And then in each sub-menu,
I can put the name of
the Audio Unit here,
and that's where we're
getting that information from.
This track over here is a mono input,
and it's going to stereo.
So now I've got a mono to mono,
or I've got a mono to stereo.
So in the mono to mono,
you'll see now that I don't have an
entry here for Elemental Audio Suspector,
because it's
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so getting into some more
of the special properties,
we've seen just sort of the
basic kind of setup stuff.
: Special properties.
The first one we want
to look at is custom UI.
This is a property where
an Audio Unit can say,
"Well, I've actually got some custom
UI that I've written for myself.
Here it is." We support
two flavors of UIs,
either Carbon UIs or Cocoa UIs.
And in both cases, an Audio Unit can
[Transcript missing]
: Thank you, Dr.
Cronin.
Even just looking at users
of those different apps,
you're probably looking at different
people with different capabilities
and different understanding.
And so we really encourage
The second property that's also
pretty interesting and provides a good
user experience is Factory Presets.
Factory Presets are a collection
of states of an Audio Unit,
and by a Preset for an Audio Unit,
A factory preset is the
Audio Unit developer saying,
"I know some really cool things
that I can do with my Audio Unit,
and they're like this."
You can think of keyboards.
If you look at the market for keyboards
over the last 20 years with MIDI,
most of the sounds that people play out
of keyboards are the factory presets.
This is a very important
We also have user presets.
This is with a property
called Class Info.
So if the user wants to go in
and tweak some of the values and
have a look at whether they're
using the custom UI or slider UI,
they can tweak that value and then
the host should provide the ability
to save the preset and restore it to
I'd like to see the host app supporting
this location or a couple of locations
that can be used to put presets in.
And by doing this, it means that when I'm
using one application,
I can get my presets,
and then I go to another application,
I can have the same
presets available to me.
And they can go across the system,
regardless of which Audio Unit I'm using.
[Transcript missing]
: The Audio Unit preset is really
saving the parameter state,
but a preset may contain more
than just parameter states.
So as a host, you can't just go through
and save parameters.
You've actually got to save the preset.
But then there is a useful
information that an Audio Unit can
[Transcript missing]
There's a couple of things.
We talked about the
pre-gain parameter here.
So all that the generic UI is doing here
is getting the parameter information
and drawing this parameter from here.
It's found out that it's
DB from the parameter tag.
It's got the range.
It's given me a slider that I can drag.
You'll also notice that there's
a kind of visual clumping of
This allows us to create quite a
useful and reasonable view for a lot
of audio units just by doing sliders.
So the first clump has just some
global settings for the multiband,
pre-, post-gain and so forth.
It's a four-band multiband,
so it has three crossovers,
so you can then set the crossover
points in the next clump of three.
And then you've got four clumps,
one for each of the bands
of the multiband compressor.
And then down the bottom you've
got a compression amount.
Now, the compression amount
is a parameter as well,
and it's a read-only parameter.
I'm going to go ahead and
show you the parameters there.
That's just still a parameter.
It's showing me how much in
each of the bands I'm actually
compressing at each time.
[Transcript missing]
Mac OS X Reverb makes particularly
good use of parameters
with different room sizes.
And Reverbs can be very hard to program,
so having a good collection of factory
presets here can be very useful.
[Transcript missing]
In my Presets directory I've
got an Apple AUmatrix Reverb
directory now with my preset file.
Any application can look for preset
files in those directories and present
the presets however they want to.
: Hi, everyone.
I'm Bill Stewart.
I'm the CEO of Audio Unit.
This is an audio unit from Destroy FX.
[Transcript missing]
: I've got parameters that have
got different types of things.
I've got menus, I've got check boxes,
all of the menu items have
: Thank you, Paul.
I'm going to take a moment to thank
the panel for this presentation.
This is all being just generated from
the generic parameter information.
As I
[Transcript missing]
is able to do this because he can
just send a notification to me.
He's not doing this on the render thread.
He's just saying,
this parameter has changed, and then...
[Transcript missing]
So,
we're getting into some really serious
preset management problems for you guys.
There's this synth by
Urs Heckman called Zebra.
Let's just solo him.
So, he has a custom
[Transcript missing]
This is fine.
You could present this in
a menu and that would be...
This is fine.
You could present this in
a menu and that would be...
We've got keyboard
navigation going on here.
I can just cycle through
the presets here.
[Transcript missing]
: We're going to start
with the Audio Unit logo.
This is the first time that
we've used the Audio Unit logo.
It's a new feature that gets
exposed to the user to use.
In the case of ours, as you can see,
all of the presets here,
and all that we're doing in AULAB,
is we're just going through
the zebra directory,
and every directory that we're seeing,
we're creating an entry in there.
[Transcript missing]
The next thing the Audio Unit does is it
looks at all the information you've told
us about the formats that you can handle.
And then it says, "Okay,
let's see if you actually can
handle them." So it doesn't do any
validation at this point in terms of,
[Transcript missing]
does a collection of render tests.
Now the render tests are done
at different numbers of frames.
It uses also, if
: The idea behind this case is
that in each of those steps,
when it's rendering at a
different number of frames,
it does the following pattern.
It un-initializes the Audio Unit,
it sets max frames to
that number of frames.
If it's got to reset the format,
it'll do that.
Then it initializes the Audio Unit,
then it renders
This is the sort of pattern of usage
that you'll see in host applications.
If we can go to slides just for a moment.
I just wanted to show you,
in an application, you may have a,
what IO buffer size do
you want to do here?
So that's part of this pattern of
uninitializing and reinitializing.
It's very important that
Sample rate of the device
would have changed,
and this is also an important
part of this whole step.
So that's what the tests are.
also looks at the
semantics and connections.
As we insert or remove Audio
[Transcript missing]
sort of the best practice that's sort of
embedded in the validation tool is that,
you know,
before initializing hosts should
be setting max frames and we,
we expect and recommend that the host,
whenever at all possible,
if it sets max frames to 512,
that that's always what it
asks the audio unit to do.
We haven't made this a mandate,
but we're very strongly
recommending this,
so we'll have a look at some
of the kinds of situations we
want to avoid in the future.
And that involves using buffer
offsets for scheduling parameters and
: Let's say we've got a host app
and the user has said that they want
to ramp from one parameter value to
the next over some period of time.
The host has translated that
into a ramp that's going to start
at one parameter value and then
Audio Unit says that it can be ramped.
Then the Audio Unit,
the host can then just turn it
around and set the start and end,
start and duration,
and starting value and
ending value for the ramp.
And then that's all it needs
to do for that whole slice.
And we like to see the supporter
because we also think Audio Units know
[Transcript missing]
So once the host has done
either of these two actions,
then the idea is to render for 512.
So the host will see that
this has to take place.
So it'll then decide, well,
I'm going to break this 512 frames
up into a bunch of little renders.
So I'm going to render for
[Transcript missing]
This sort of practice
is legal and it's fine,
but it has caused some Audio Units
not to publish parameters because
they really can't handle being
bundled up into these little slices
when they're asked to render,
just because of the nature of
the way they do their processing.
And so we really would like to see
that this is a discouraged practice,
that it fades into the
distance and that we all
This isn't something that we do
anything with in AU Lab because
we're not a sequencer,
it's a mixing console as an application,
so that's the last slide.
Thank you for your patience.
Now,
one of the things that AU Lab does that
we mentioned previously is that it really
: Audio Unit deals in a very
sort of hypersensitive situation.
It's very, very twinkly.
And that's actually,
for this manifestation of it,
this is quite deliberate.
And it's deliberate.
And what will happen is
that when there's a problem,
when you take too long
in your render pool,
you'll get an audio device
overload from the hell.
You'll miss samples.
And
When you see this in AU Lab,
you should then diagnose
this and there are some tools
that can be used to help you.
In this case we have a
CPU or quality property.
You may want to actually provide that
to users so that they can scale back
your processing if they're on a slower
machine or they've just got 3,000
plug-ins to run instead of the 50 that
you run at home and they want your
thing but they don't need it to be
high quality or something like that.
So that's one way that you
can provide UI for that.
We provide this in the DLS Music device.
A second common problem
[Transcript missing]
: We've talked a little bit about
re-initialization and reset.
Reset is a timeline changes in
[Transcript missing]
There's two examples we're
going to look at today.
One is Apple's DLS Music device.
It has two modes.
You can have it as an internal
reverb mode where it's
only got one active output,
or a send mode where it has two outputs.
One output is the dry mix,
which is the dry mix,
which is the sound output.
And the other output is the audio output.
So this is a very simple
way to look at it.
The second one we're going to look at is
Native Instruments' Reactor Audio Unit.
This is, you know, is probably something
has a dynamic assignable capability
for where his channels go.
And so what we'll have a look
at in the lab is how a host
can configure that and then
Okay, so first of all,
here's a collection of tracks here.
You'll see that they,
it highlights both tracks.
This is the DLS Music device.
I've got this one
turned off from the mix,
so I'm not actually having this
output going into the mix that's
coming from the track mixer at all.
In fact, what I'm doing is that I'm
sending it over to a bus,
and then on that bus I've got a reverb.
And as you saw me previously,
I was sort of playing around
with the reverb though.
: We've got an audio overload here,
so there's a problem we should look at.
The DLSS code went to sleep.
[Transcript missing]
It doesn't really matter
from Reactor's case,
because all that Reactor
does is process 16 channels.
And so the way that we can configure this
from the host side is however I want to
use this Audio Unit on the hosting side.
Now, if I bring up Reactor's UI,
because once you get into an
Audio Unit that's like this,
[Transcript missing]
I also noticed that Reactor knows that
it's only using four channels because
when we've configured the Audio Unit,
we've said to it, "Well, actually,
I wanted two outputs,
and those two outputs are going to have
: So it knows that I'm
using four channels.
Then I can connect these up into
I've actually got a layering
now of the two instruments.
There's that instrument.
One of the things I can do here is
I can send this guy over to a send bus.
And I'm going to actually just
have this coming out of the rears.
And I'm turning this off.
And so now you should be hearing...
This should be coming out
of the front two speakers.
And that should be
coming out of the rear.
So A-Lab lets you kind of
mix and match things and see,
because I think this is an
important thing that we forget
as Audio Unit developers,
is that Audio Units are going
to work with other Audio Units.
And so it's nice to have a host where
you can play around with these things.
How are they going to mix
with other Audio Units?
Maybe there's even some nice
patches to use with Apple's
Reverb or a piano sound or,
you know, a couple
[Transcript missing]
The web is really focused on
real-time usage and we really only
look at effects and instruments.
By real-time what we mean is that
when I ask you for 512 samples,
if you need input,
you're only going to ask for 512.
So we call this sort of like
a real-time functionality.
And converters are a
little bit different.
Converters, Audio Units,
they can be used in a real-time context,
but they're also able to ask
for more or less data whenever
they're asked for output,
for their input.
And so you can use them in real-time,
but there may be some constraints,
and we'll have a look at that.
[Transcript missing]
say well I'm going to
process 3 million samples.
So it knows the range of samples
it's going to process and it can jump
arbitrarily around when it needs input
as you're asking serially for its output.
And there's examples in the Cordio
SDK about how to use an offline
audio unit and refer you to that.
If you saw the session this morning
Doug talked about audio unit generators
as being a new audio tab in Taga.
And audio unit generators
only generate audio.
They don't have audio
I'm going to say the same
thing for Converters as well.
Then it's potentially an
Audio Unit that you might want to
consider hosting in your application.
If it doesn't publish an
interface like the scheduled
Slice Player that we provide,
then there's really nothing you can do.
It's not designed to be used with a UI,
so you would skip that one.
[Transcript missing]
There's that.
Now,
because this is a generator audio unit,
it's not, it's kind of,
we're going to bend the rules a bit.
We said that AU Lab is like
this kind of real-time thing.
But actually,
when I've got a generator unit,
I'm going to assume that I'm,
it can be kind of,
There's that.
Now,
because this is a generator Audio Unit,
it's not, it's kind of,
we're going to bend the rules a bit.
We've said that AU Lab is like
this kind of real-time thing,
but actually,
when I've got a generator unit,
I'm going to assume that I'm,
can be kind of,
[Transcript missing]
This AU time-pitch show,
we're pretty pleased with the
quality we're getting so far.
We've still got some
work on optimizing it.
I can make this speed up a little bit.
As you can see, I can interact with
this quite a nice way.
I can define a whole bunch of
regions using the Firefly array
you hear from transcribing music
or learning something here.
I can go faster as well.
I think that I've really
got that bit down.
I can make it go slower and I can change
The things you'll notice here
as well is that we have a
standard and an export tab here.
Audio Unit parameters can also
publish export parameters.
[Transcript missing]
We looked at AU Lab as a way that you
can use to develop your Audio Units
and you can have some fun with it.
It shows you how your
AU is presented and you can
[Transcript missing]